>> Brian Holt: What do you think?
Do we like RSCs?
Are we fans?
Are we not fans?
Is it big stupid face or
is it like really cool?
I don't know.
>> Student 1: Do you have any
like general rules of thumb for
when you recommend next js?
>> Brian Holt: I think as you see here,
when you have a lot of
like client actions which
then do things on the server.
So like a lot of when a client would
be calling an API fairly frequently,
this is nice, right?
This makes the client-server
interaction pattern very great,
it makes it very nice to do.
When you don't have that,
there's enough downside where you might
question maybe I don't need this.
Or maybe when you have something
that's extremely client-side heavy,
this also could get very annoying pretty
quickly because everything would be used
client, right?
So a great example of this is if
I was making Excalibur draw or
something like that, first of all,
if you don't use Excalibur draw.
Great piece of software,
I really quite like it, but
you can see this is all client side
drawing and all that kind of stuff.
Doing this on next JS just doesn't
make a lot of sense to me.
I would just use like vite or something
like that, or or tan stack router or
something like that.
So, yeah, extremely client side
heavy applications, maybe not.
Yeah, hopefully the thing that
is like in your brain is like,
these are useful Sometimes.
If I communicated that, then I
successfully conveyed my bias towards you,
and you adopted it, and
now it's your problem.
[LAUGH].
>> Student 1: [INAUDIBLE]
React do we have similar frameworks
that embrace a paradigm RSCs,
or is it kind of a new paradigm
that's unique to react.
>> Brian Holt: Man, I feel like Meteor did
this some time ago, there were certain
aspects of Meteor that made these kind
of interactions kind of seamless.
I feel like rails and
like Phoenix have elements
of this as well, obviously not with React.
But Phoenix live view all kind
of stuff if you're into elixir,
which I am not, [LAUGH].
But if you are, has some really cool
like elements and aspects to that, yeah,
Since you're admittedly so into PHP,
Laravel has live wire now,
which is very much this, Yep,
Just from the PHP side, Absolutely, yeah,
Laravel is actually great
example that as well.
So, yeah, I don't none of
this was invented by react.
I think it's really fair to say that this
is a lot of adopting fairly old paradigms
and just bringing them into React
developers and calling them shiny again.
But yeah, pick your flavor of back end I'm
sure there's some Python version of this,
it doesn't come to mind, but
I'm sure someone has or will do it, right?
I don't know, there's Python East does,
I don't trust them,
I say that my last PM job was open source
manager at Snowflake on Python projects.
So that's true I don't trust
myself either, so that's fair.
Okay, I'm pretty happy with that.
So that concludes the server
portion of React.
That's about everything you can
do with a server with React.
Is that fair to say?
Yeah, there's not a lot more you
can do with the server plus React.
And it just speaks to the flexibility and
the power of React,
you can bend it to many
shapes that you want to.
And you can use it itself
like its own framework or
you can like use it to
construct larger frameworks,
it's a pretty versatile tool
which I think is is pretty great.